So let's take a look at what we mean by feature detector.
Ok it's very interesting strategy a very interesting technique and convolutions in general are really
interesting going to show you exactly what they mean by that.
The first step is convolution simply.
OK.
Use kind of a kernel matrix to scan and give an image and apply filters to paint a certain effect.
So simply we can apply kind of a matrix in here that kind of a scan through the image and tell us OK
these are kind of the features within the image can do what we call it feature extraction out of it.
So how can we what do you mean by this.
So in a very simple form we can run what we call feature detectors.
OK let's just assume that we only have one feature of the doctor through the image.
And what we're going to do that we're going to create we'll call it feature maps.
Right which is kind of a kind of a feature.
OK that's kind of a boiled down features out of this image.
OK.
So what do we mean.
So let's assume that we have our image and we want to for example do let's say blurring of the image
so that we could do that we can scan all these pixels let's say average them per se.
OK.
So that will kind of generate kind of a different kind of another matrix or another image is all colored
feature maps.
OK I want you to get familiar with terminologies because once we move a little bit into the actual coding
and training it will be very important to understand what they mean by a kernel or a feature detector
and then WM-I feature maps.
So simply picture maps are the output of the process of running a feature detector on an actual image.
Right.
So let's take a look at in kind of a feature detection in action.
So as you can see here this is my image OK which is kind of you know let's say the boot image as you
can see here.
And again this image is a kind of like greyscale.
OK.
And what we're going to do they're going to apply a feature detector.
Which is this blue kind of feature detector again it's kind of a matrix again and apply to our image
and then we can open all the colored feature map which is the output of the convolution process.
So let's get started.
First that is OK we can apply let's say the 360 with the matrix here and see see what you just put them
together OK.
What are you going to do is going to multiply each pixel by each pixel and then sum up this pixel by
this multiply again 0 by 1 and then multiply 0 by 1 then multiply 0 by 1 and so on so forth add them
up together.
Just come up with one number and that number will be our kind of value that we're going to be putting
here.
So if we apply the feature detector to our greyscale image we are actually going to get the value of
one.
Why.
Because if you guys can see this is the only matching element right.
Any zero Obviously if multiplied by any value going to be 0 this is the only value that's matching we're
a good match.
If you some them up that would generate that number.
OK what's next.
What do you expect.
Obviously we're just going to take the feature detectors.
We're going to shift it a little bit.
Right.
Let's move forward.
We're going to shift it to the right when we shift it right by one step.
That means we're going to move by one we'll call it stride which is how many pixels we're going to be
shifting through the image.
So if we apply this again we're going to generate one that's shifted again.
We're going to generate again one if we move the feature detector.
OK.
You'll see that here we generated the value of three.
Why.
Because when we multiply again one by one that's generate one.
These are zeroes.
And then here we multiply one by zero which is zero.
One by one that's again the second one.
That means 2 and then 0 0 then the other one sample one.
And some of them up together that would generate the value of three.
And that's why we got the value of three here.
Let's keep up let's keep moving.
That will fill up the entire matrix.
And this is basically what we call the feature map.
Again it's very simple process very simple technique and that's how we apply kind of convolution.
Here we can choose whatever filter we want we can choose.
You know all the Instagram feature all the Instagram filter is it's simply this kind of bunch of conclusions
that we can run a feature detector or run like kind of a kernel on an image.
OK to come up with a newer image.
This might be blurry blurred might be sharp and might be whatever image we would would them.
OK.
All right.
That's how you kind of perform convolution.
Let's take a look at kind of a convolution in action.
All right.
If you guys go here then this link OK actually a very interesting website.
If you guys can see here this kind of again our image.
And here this image actually presented by certain numbers.
Again if I told you it would represent image as kind of pixels and each pixel had a value from 0 to
255 indicating black and white.
And these are actual values.
You can see you know it's not very clear.
But let's say one hundred and seventy seven 172.
And as you move here it will show you what's the pixel looks like an actual image.
So if I wanted for example to select any whatever kernel we want if we want let's say to can select
like 30 kernel OK or let's say select for example or sharpening one.
OK.
You can actually show that sharpening a can or an action.
So I can see we we we chose three by the kernel and this kind of the kernel we see we saw here this
is three by three.
All right.
And what you could see is we simply multiply the values of the pixels which is in this case 200 and
0 6 multiplied by zero which the value of the kernel.
So it would simply multiply and want to move the mouse because every time we move it actually I can't
explain.
So multiply 206 by zero and then multiply 206 which is the value of the pixel by minus 1 which is the
value of the filter and the first row.
And we keep doing this as we move forward.
OK.
And we just come up with one value with 64 and that will be the outcome of the pixel that we're going
to be placed here and the output image.
OK.
And if we keep doing this it's actually very interesting.
They can actually show this in action.
It can show you how can we do convolution action.
OK and that would be the output image was kind of sharpened image out of our original image.
OK.
OK let's do blurry let's blurred the image.
So if we blurred the image you guys can see it's kind of we're doing kind of an averaging to the pixels
just whatever's here come up with a value we averaged it and that's how we come up with this output
image.
It's very interesting as you guys to go and explore a little bit more.
You can try different kernel's in here.
That's the whole idea of applying convolutions.
This go back to our presentation.
All right.
So as you guys can see this is kind of a quick summary of our feature detection in the next section.
I'm going to walk you through a little bit more of how can we you do pooling or Max pooling and how
we do flattening.
I hope you guys enjoy that section and see you in the next section.